The following are some best practices to be followed while developing a web page or an application using HTML5.
---------

1.In the application, ensure that each web page is having proper document structure with divisions such as <head>, <body>, <header>, <footer>.


Ensure that correct DOCTYPE is declared, which is required for the browser to understand the standards of the application used to render it properly.



Use a meaningful title for the web pages.



Always close the tag even if it is not a container tag.



Avoid Inline styles and embedded scripts. Try to include script and style with external files keeping your HTML code clean and neat.



Include the script as an external file and place this code at the end portion of the <body> tag.



Add the lang attribute to the root element, and keep the value as short as possible.



Even though HTML is case insensitive, using lowercase for code is the best practice.



Use the most appropriate HTML tag for sectioning the web page. Try to avoid the generic <div> tag and use more meaningful tags such as <article>, <section> and appropriate tags in the web pages.



Always use <ul> for designing navigation bars.



Avoid the use of the 'type' attribute in the HTML list element and use the corresponding CSS property list-style-type property instead.



On embedding elements to the web page, use the alt attribute with a proper description text.



Indent nested elements properly.



Use appropriate type attribute for Input element inside forms, also ensure the form control is wrapped with <label> element.



Use a sandbox attribute along with the iframe element whenever it is needed to embed another webpage into the application.



Use rel attribute with a value "noopener  noreferrer" along with hyperlink, to avoid reverse tabnabbing.



Consider all the input data as untrusted information and sanitize those inputs before it is used in some logic in the application.



Do proper output encoding to avoid chances of injection of malicious code to the application through input elements.


